Let us go one step further with this flushing and closing of our writers.
Here I created a second BufferedWriter, writer2, by decorating writer1.
And this is very common practice in the Java IO API.
And I'm going to create another one, a PrintWriter,
by decorating the second writer, just like this.
This PrintWriter is a very handy writer.
It has a printf method, a print format,
following the same kind of pattern as the C language,
the print format of the C language.
I'm just going to write something like that and pass 12 as a second parameter.
And if I run this code and check the content of this debug.log file,
you can see that the first part has been properly returned.
But the part written through this PrintWriter has not.
And the reason is that the flush method of neither this writer2
neither this PrintWriter has been called.
See if I close this writer by hand,
which is going to call this flush method and run that code again,
now i = 12 is written on the file. Let me add a carriage
return here. So the good practice, in fact,
is not to write the code like this,
but to add the opening of all the resources you need as
parameters to this try with resources pattern.
Now I don't need to call the close method from this PrintWriter because all the
close method and the flush method of all those writers are going to be properly
called as part of the try with resources pattern.
So if I run this code, now you can see that in my debug.log file,
everything has been returned properly.
So the conclusion of that is the following. All the resources you
need to use in a try‑catch block needs to be opened as part as the
try with resources pattern. And the try with resources pattern supports that, so you need to use it.